README.md, before:

# Zapata AI challenge! 
Translate text to SQL query to then execute against a postgres database, and dockerize it all.

# Running the app

**IMPORTANT:** First you must obtain my defog api key. Create a file called `.env.defog` in the root directory of this repo, and put this line in it:
```
DEFOG_API_KEY = XXX
```
Where XXX is my api key. I will send the key in the email in which I send the link to this repo. I'm on defog's free tier, which means 1000 free requests per month.

After that just clone the repo and do a `docker compose up --build`. This should build the images from the Dockerfiles, then start the postgres and fastapi containers from these images.

## Testing the app
The fastapi container is listening on port 8000, which is also mapped to port 8000 on the host. The `query-test.py` script can be used to contact localhost:8000 and send questions. 

First, `pip install requests tabulate` if you don't already have these modules. Do so in a virtual environment if you'd like.

Then just go `python query-test.py`.

## Manually viewing the database

The fastapi container hits up the postgres container through a docker network, but the postgres container also maps the port it's listening on to host port 5400. 

So you can connect to localhost:5400 using a tool like pgAdmin to view the database directly (e.g., to check that what the app is returning is correct). Default user is `postgres` with password `supersecret`.

Commit message:

Update readme with example questions and contact info

README.md, after:

# Zapata AI challenge! 
Translate text to SQL query to then execute against a postgres database, and dockerize it all.

# Running the app

**IMPORTANT:** First you must obtain my defog api key. Create a file called `.env.defog` in the root directory of this repo, and put this line in it:
```
DEFOG_API_KEY = XXX
```
Where XXX is my api key. I will send the key in the email in which I send the link to this repo. I'm on defog's free tier, which means 1000 free requests per month.

After that just clone the repo and do a `docker compose up --build`. This should build the images from the Dockerfiles, then start the postgres and fastapi containers from these images (the postgres database automatically populates with the csv file on startup).

## Testing the app
The fastapi container is listening on port 8000, which is also mapped to port 8000 on the host. The `query-test.py` script can be used to contact localhost:8000 and send questions. 

First, `pip install requests tabulate` if you don't already have these modules. Do so in a virtual environment if you'd like.

Then just go `python query-test.py`.

### Example Questions

The data is 2014-2023 data on TSLA stock, so some questions you could ask include:
 - What was the stock's opening price Jan 2 2014?
 - What's the average stock price for the first 10 days of 2020?
 - What are the 5 dates when the stock had the highest close price?

## Manually viewing the database

The fastapi container hits up the postgres container through a docker network, but the postgres container also maps the port it's listening on to host port 5400. 

So you can connect to localhost:5400 using a tool like pgAdmin to view the database directly (e.g., to check that what the app is returning is correct). Default user is `postgres` with password `supersecret`.

# Notes

You can contact me at `bryan.yan@mail.utoronto.ca` if you have questions about the app or need the defog api key.
